We want to learn more visualizations, in this video,
we will use cards.
So the first thing we have to do is we have to create a new page,
let's do this
and name that page cards and more and press enter.
Now what is a card?
Well as with the slicer, let's simply create one and see what that is then.
So to find a card, you simply go to the visualizations and select that 123 symbol right here,
now we have the card and we can write that right here.
Now the interesting thing about the card is that you only have one field right there,
so let's say you want to have the population in that field and let's see what happens.
So I'm selecting the population and drag it right there,
we now see the total population,
so apparently this card only presents one single value
and that's what you can do with that.
So if you want to have a quick overview of a total revenue of a year or values like that, it might
make sense to use a card as a visualization.
Now we have the total population but this doesn't help a lot, right,
what if you want to filter that for a specific year?
So we have our report level filter here,
we know that
but what if we want to add a visual level filter?
So we simply select year in the FACT-Population table,
drag it right there and now change the advanced filtering, to that, to the basic filtering. If you now scroll down and
select 2017 and minimize that
and now we know that we have 7.5 billion people living on this planet in 2017.
Let's add another filter maybe, a country filter in the DIM-Region table, select it and drag it right here
and now let's say we only want to see, I'm scrolling down
in the meanwhile, the United States, this is where I want to go to, right here.
Let's press that and minimize it
and now you see that we have the total population of the United States in 2017 in that card.
So this is a normal card but there is also a multi-role card existing, let's create this also to see
the difference.
So the multi-role card can be found right here, if you click it, you can drag it also right there,
well and now let's start the same way we did it with the normal card right here.
So we go to the FACT-Population table and drag the population to the fields, like this. Now this doesn't look
really correct right here
but we know what the problem is, right?
We have to change the default summarization again.
So let's do that by going to the fields,
click onto the arrow and say yes, we want to summarize it, like that. Now
this looks better,
however we still have the total population for all the years.
So let's also add that year filter as we did it before,
like this and like that,
go to the basic filtering, I'm doing it a little bit faster now because it's the same thing we just did,
click 2017 and close it.
7.5 billion,
we know that from the first card.
So the last thing we have to do is we have to add the country.
So back to the DIM-Region table, selecting the country, dragging it right here and scrolling down,
maybe like this, scroll down to the United States and select it.
Well this is the same value that we had before, right,
so this doesn't add a lot of value right now
but what if you want to change that from a basic filtering to another filter? The top end filter, this one,
let's click that. Now we can again decide if we want to have a specific range of the countries to be
displayed and let's select the top three countries by the population again
and press apply filter.
Now we only have the values still, right,
so this still doesn't add a lot of value,
let's minimize that and go back to the fields.
Now we could only add one field to the normal card visualization but let's try to add the year also to that field.
So I'm selecting the year, dragging it and as you can see right now, you can add more data to that field in the
multi-role card,
let's also add the country then. So I'm selecting the country and add it right here and now if I increase that a
little bit maybe
and now it gets interesting right because this multi-role card allows you to view much more detailed
information when comparing it to the normal card.
So this is the multi-role card and the card visualization, something that you might need
quite often when you work with Power BI desktop.
Now I won't show you all of the visualizations in that course but there are two more visualizations I want
to show you,
let me show you those in the next video.